W-17160135-updateCompatibilityTable-28-dm (#403)
mulesoft/docs-dataweave: modules/ROOT/pages/dataweave-system-properties.adoc

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols=",a"]
|===
|Property |Description

//com.mulesoft.dw.buffered_char_sequence.enabled//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.buffered_char_sequence.enabled`|
Controls whether an internal `BufferedCharSequence` improvement is enabled or disabled. When this property is set to `true`, DataWeave does not load large fields (greater than 1.5M) into memory. DataWeave reads these fields by chunk. This feature reduces performance to prevent an out-of-memory error.

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `true`

//com.mulesoft.dw.buffersize//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.buffersize`|
Sets the size (in bytes) of in-memory input and output buffers that DataWeave uses to retain processed inputs and outputs. DataWeave stores payloads that exceed this size in temporary files `dw-buffer-index-${count}.tmp` and `dw-buffer-output-${count}.tmp`. See xref:dataweave-memory-management.adoc[DataWeave Memory Management].

* Type: `Integer`
* Default: `8192`

//com.mulesoft.dw.charbuffersize//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.charbuffersize`|
Determines the size (in bytes) of the buffer used by the writer.

> * Type: `Integer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Type: `Number` (in bytes)
```

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `true`

//com.mulesoft.dw.cpulimit.watchdog//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.cpulimit.watchdog`|
Monitors and limits script execution time when set to `true`.

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `true`

//com.mulesoft.dw.date_minus_back_compatibility//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.date_minus_back_compatibility`|

Restores the xref:dataweave-cookbook-add-and-subtract-time.adoc[Add and Subtract Time] behaviors that changed in 2.3.0 when this property is set to `true`.

For example, consider the following DataWeave script:
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/dw
---
\|2019-10-01\| - \|2018-09-23\|
----
* In DataWeave 2.3.0, the expression returns `PT8952H`.
* In DataWeave 2.2.0, the expression returns `P1Y8D`.

* Type: `Boolean`

> * Default: `
>   false for language levels: 2.3, 2.4
> 
>   false for language levels: 2.5`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Default: `false`
```

Available for language levels: 2.3, 2.4, 2.5

//com.mulesoft.dw.decode_binaries_with_writer_encoding//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.decode_binaries_with_writer_encoding`|

> If set, then binary values in json are written using JsonWriter encoding, otherwise it will use either the encoding defined in the value schema or the default one.

Author: ```suggestion
When set to true, binary values in JSON are written using JsonWriter encoding. Otherwise, the property uses either the encoding defined in the value schema or the default one.
```

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

//com.mulesoft.dw.defaultOperator.disableExceptionHandling//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.defaultOperator.disableExceptionHandling`|

> When set to `true` disable the `default` operator to catch runtime exceptions.

Author: ```suggestion
When set to true, DataWeave disables the `default` operator to catch runtime exceptions.
```

> Enabling this behavior `default` operator does not return the `default value` when a runtime exception occurs.

Author: ```suggestion
Enabling this behavior `default` operator doesn't return the `default value` when a runtime exception occurs.
```

> When set to `false` the `default` operator catches the runtime exceptions and returns the `default value`.

Author: ```suggestion
When set to `false`, the `default` operator catches the runtime exceptions and returns the `default value`.
```

* Type: `Boolean`

> * Default: `
>   false for language levels: 
> 
>   true for language levels: 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Default: `true`
```

Available for language levels: 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9

//com.mulesoft.dw.directbuffer.disable//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.directbuffer.disable`|
Controls whether DataWeave uses off-heap memory (the default) or heap memory. DataWeave uses off-heap memory for internal buffering, which can cause issues on systems that have only a small amount of memory. See xref:dataweave-memory-management.adoc[DataWeave Memory Management].

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

//com.mulesoft.dw.dump_files//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.dump_files`|
_Experimental:_ Dumps the input context and the failing script into a folder when this property is set to `true`. This behavior enables you to track the failing script and the data that makes the script fail, which is particularly useful for verifying that the received input data is valid. Incorrect scripts often fail when an upstream component generates invalid data. 

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

> `
> com.mulesoft.dw.dump_files` is an _experimental feature_ that is subject to change or removal from future versions of DataWeave. See xref:dataweave-troubleshoot.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`com.mulesoft.dw.dump_files` is an _experimental feature_ that is subject to change or removal from future versions of DataWeave. See xref:dataweave-troubleshoot.adoc[].
```

//com.mulesoft.dw.dump_folder//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.dump_folder`|
_Experimental:_ Specifies the path in which to dump files when `com.mulesoft.dw.dump_files` is set to `true`. 

* Type: `String`
* Default: `java.io.tempdir (system property value)`

> `
> com.mulesoft.dw.dump_folder` is an _experimental feature_ that is subject to change or removal from future versions of DataWeave. See xref:dataweave-troubleshoot.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`com.mulesoft.dw.dump_folder` is an _experimental feature_ that is subject to change or removal from future versions of DataWeave. See xref:dataweave-troubleshoot.adoc[].
```

//com.mulesoft.dw.dumper_fill_stacktrace//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.dumper_fill_stacktrace`|
_Experimental:_ Adds the StackTrace for dumper exceptions when `com.mulesoft.dw.dump_files` is set to `true`. 

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

> `
> com.mulesoft.dw.dumper_fill_stacktrace` is an _experimental feature_ that is subject to change or removal from future versions of DataWeave. See xref:dataweave-troubleshoot.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`com.mulesoft.dw.dumper_fill_stacktrace` is an _experimental feature_ that is subject to change or removal from future versions of DataWeave. See xref:dataweave-troubleshoot.adoc[].
```

//com.mulesoft.dw.error_value_length//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.error_value_length`|
Sets the maximum length of exception messages to display to the user. The message is truncated to the maximum length. This setting is useful for avoiding long exception messages.

> * Type: `Integer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Type: `Number`
```

* Default: `80`

//com.mulesoft.dw.indexsize//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.indexsize`|
Sets the maximum size (in bytes) of the page in memory that indexed readers use.

> * Type: `Integer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Type: `Number (in bytes)`
```

* Default: `1572864`

//com.mulesoft.dw.java.disable_set_accessible//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.java.disable_set_accessible`|

> When set to `true` the JavaModuleLoader does not change the accessible flag for fields or methods used via reflection. The default value evaluates the current JDK version used and the language level. The value is `true` when the used JDK is 17+ and the language version is bigger than 2.6

Author: ```suggestion
When set to `true`, the JavaModuleLoader doesn’t change the accessible flag for fields or methods used via reflection. The default value evaluates the current JDK version used and the language level. The value is `true` when the used JDK is 17 or later and the language version is 2.6 or later.
```

* Type: `Boolean`

> * Default: `
>   false for language levels: 2.5
> 
>   true for language levels: 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Default:
  ** `false` for language levels: 2.5

  ** `true` for language levels: 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9
```

Available for language levels: 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9

//com.mulesoft.dw.java.stacktrace//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.java.stacktrace`|

> Specifies the depth of the Java stack trace

Author: ```suggestion
Specifies the depth of the Java stack trace.
```

> * Type: `Integer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Type: `Number`
```

* Default: `6`

//com.mulesoft.dw.javaSqlDateToDate//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.javaSqlDateToDate`|

When set, `java.sql.Date` maps to the DataWeave `Date` type. If `false`, it maps to `DateTime`.

* Type: `Boolean`

* Default: `
  false for language levels: 2.4

>   true for language levels: 2.5`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Default:
  ** `false` for language levels: 2.4

  ** `true` for language levels: 2.5
```

Available for language levels: 2.4, 2.5

//com.mulesoft.dw.max_memory_allocation//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.max_memory_allocation`|
Sets the size (in bytes) of each slot in the off-heap memory pool. DataWeave stores payloads that exceed this size in temporary files `dw-buffer-input-${count}.tmp` and `dw-buffer-output-${count}.tmp`.

> * Type: `Integer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Type: `Number (in bytes)`
```

* Default: `1572864`

//com.mulesoft.dw.memory_pool_size//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.memory_pool_size`|
Sets the number of slots in the memory pool. DataWeave buffers use off-heap memory from a pool, up to a defined size (`com.mulesoft.dw.memory_pool_size` * `com.mulesoft.dw.max_memory_allocation`). DataWeave allocates the remainder using heap memory. See xref:dataweave-memory-management.adoc[DataWeave Memory Management].

> * Type: `Integer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Type: `Number`
```

* Default: `60`

//com.mulesoft.dw.multipart.defaultContentType//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.multipart.defaultContentType`|
Sets the default Content-Type to use on parts of the `multipart/*` format when a `Content-Type` is not specified. See also, the multipart reader property xref:dataweave-formats-multipart.adoc#properties[defaultContentType]. _Introduced in DataWeave 2.3 (2.3.0-20210720) for the August 2021 release of Mule 4.3.0-20210719._

* Type: `String`
* Default: `application/octet-stream`

//com.mulesoft.dw.scheduler.size//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.scheduler.size`|

> Specifies the size of DataWeave scheduler thread pool

Author: ```suggestion
Specifies the size of DataWeave scheduler thread pool.
```

> * Type: `Integer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Type: `Number`
```

* Default: `100`

//com.mulesoft.dw.stacksize//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.stacksize`|
Sets the maximum size of the stack. When a function recurses too deeply, DataWeave throws an error, such as Stack Overflow. The maximum size limit is 256.

> * Type: `Integer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Type: `Number`
```

* Default: `256`

//com.mulesoft.dw.stripTrailingZeroes//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.stripTrailingZeroes`|

> When set to false restores the behavior of preserving trailing zeroes for some formats (e.g.: dw, json, yaml) present in 2.4.0

Author: ```suggestion
When set to `false`, DataWeave restores the behavior of preserving trailing zeroes for some formats (e.g.: dw, json, yaml) present in 2.4.0.
```

> Since 2.5.0 trailing zeroes are removed by default.

Author: ```suggestion
Starting with 2.5.0, trailing zeroes are removed by default.
```

.DataWeave script:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
%dw 2.4
output application/json
---
1.00
----
* If `com.mulesoft.dw.stripTrailingZeroes` is set to `false`, the script returns the following output:
`1.00`
* If `com.mulesoft.dw.stripTrailingZeroes` is set to `true`, the script returns the following output:
`1`

* Type: `Boolean`

> * Default: `
>   false for language levels: 
> 
>   true for language levels: 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Default:
  ** `false` for language levels: 

  ** `true` for language levels: 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9
```

Available for language levels: 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9

//com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.bufferSize//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.bufferSize`|
Determines the size in bytes of the telemetry event buffer.

> * Type: `Integer`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Type: `Number (in bytes)`
```

* Default: `1048576`

//com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.enabled//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.enabled`|
Enables Dataweave telemetry service.

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

//com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.memory//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.memory`|

> If set, then the telemetry service will collect memory usage statistics

Author: ```suggestion
When set to `true`, the telemetry service collects memory usage statistics.
```

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

//com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.sync//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.sync`|

> If set, then telemetry events are published synchronously.

Author: ```suggestion
When set to `true`, telemetry events are published synchronously.
```

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `true`

//com.mulesoft.dw.cpulimit.watchdog//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.cpulimit.watchdog`|
Monitors and limits script execution time when set to `true`.

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `true`

//com.mulesoft.dw.date_minus_back_compatibility//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.date_minus_back_compatibility`|

> Restores the xref:dataweave-cookbook-add-and-subtract-time.adoc[Add and Subtract Time] behaviors that changed in 2.3.0 when this property is set to `true`.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I understand this one. Is it changing the behavior back to what it was in 2.3.0 or to versions earlier than 2.3.0?

Author: In 2.3.0 the behavior changed. This property restores the behavior "Add and Subtract Time" used to have. This is not a new [property](https://docs.mulesoft.com/dataweave/latest/dataweave-system-properties#:~:text=com.mulesoft.dw.date_minus_back_compatibility), don't know why it appears as such in the PR.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for explaining.

For example, consider the following DataWeave script:
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/dw
---
\|2019-10-01\| - \|2018-09-23\|
----
* In DataWeave 2.3.0, the expression returns `PT8952H`.
* In DataWeave 2.2.0, the expression returns `P1Y8D`.

* Type: `Boolean`

* Default: `false`

Available for language levels: 2.3, 2.4, 2.5

//com.mulesoft.dw.decode_binaries_with_writer_encoding//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.decode_binaries_with_writer_encoding`|

> When set to true, binary values in JSON are written using JsonWriter encoding. Otherwise, the property uses either the encoding defined in the value schema or the default one.

Author: ```suggestion
When set to `true`, binary values in JSON are written using JsonWriter encoding. Otherwise, the property uses either the encoding defined in the value schema or the default one.
```

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

//com.mulesoft.dw.defaultOperator.disableExceptionHandling//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.defaultOperator.disableExceptionHandling`|

> When set to true, DataWeave disables the `default` operator to catch runtime exceptions.

Reviewer 2: Should it be "that catches runtime exceptions"? The only way "to catch" would work would be if "to catch runtime exceptions" is the name of the operator.

> When set to true, DataWeave disables the `default` operator to catch runtime exceptions.

Author: ```suggestion
When set to true, DataWeave disables the `default` operator that catches runtime exceptions.
```

> When set to true, DataWeave disables the `default` operator that catches runtime exceptions.

Author: ```suggestion
When set to `true`, DataWeave disables the `default` operator that catches runtime exceptions.
```

> Enabling this behavior `default` operator doesn't return the `default value` when a runtime exception occurs.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this is saying. Should it be "Enabling the `default` operator ... (remove "this behavior"?) Or should it be "If you set the exception handling to true, the `default` operator ...

> Enabling this behavior `default` operator doesn't return the `default value` when a runtime exception occurs.

Author: ```suggestion
Enabling the `default` operator doesn’t return the `default value` when a runtime exception occurs.
```

* Type: `Number`
* Default: `60`

//com.mulesoft.dw.multipart.defaultContentType//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.multipart.defaultContentType`|
Sets the default Content-Type to use on parts of the `multipart/*` format when a `Content-Type` is not specified. See also, the multipart reader property xref:dataweave-formats-multipart.adoc#properties[defaultContentType]. _Introduced in DataWeave 2.3 (2.3.0-20210720) for the August 2021 release of Mule 4.3.0-20210719._

* Type: `String`
* Default: `application/octet-stream`

//com.mulesoft.dw.scheduler.size//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.scheduler.size`|
Specifies the size of DataWeave scheduler thread pool.

* Type: `Number`
* Default: `100`

//com.mulesoft.dw.stacksize//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.stacksize`|
Sets the maximum size of the stack. When a function recurses too deeply, DataWeave throws an error, such as Stack Overflow. The maximum size limit is 256.

* Type: `Number`
* Default: `256`

//com.mulesoft.dw.stripTrailingZeroes//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.stripTrailingZeroes`|

> When set to `false`, DataWeave restores the behavior of preserving trailing zeroes for some formats (e.g.: dw, json, yaml) present in 2.4.0.

Reviewer 2: I think we're supposed to avoid latinisms. One way to reword would be (for example, dw, json, yaml).  See [Latin abbreviations](https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#:~:text=3.0%20and%20later-,Latin%20abbreviations,-Reword%20to%20omit).

> When set to `false`, DataWeave restores the behavior of preserving trailing zeroes for some formats (e.g.: dw, json, yaml) present in 2.4.0.

Author: ```suggestion
When set to `false`, DataWeave restores the behavior of preserving trailing zeroes for some formats (such as DataWeave, JSON, and YAML) present in 2.4.0.
```

//com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.bufferSize//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.bufferSize`|
Determines the size in bytes of the telemetry event buffer.

* Type: `Number (in bytes)`
* Default: `1048576`

//com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.enabled//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.enabled`|
Enables Dataweave telemetry service.

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

//com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.memory//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.memory`|
When set to `true`, the telemetry service collects memory usage statistics.

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

//com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.sync//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.telemetry.sync`|
When set to `true`, telemetry events are published synchronously.

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

//com.mulesoft.dw.track.cursor.close//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.track.cursor.close`|
When set to `true`, tracks the stack trace from which the {CursorProvider#close()} method is called. Use this property for troubleshooting, for example, if {CursorProvider#openCursor()} is called on a cursor that is already closed.

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

//com.mulesoft.dw.valueSelector.selectsAlwaysFirst//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.valueSelector.selectsAlwaysFirst`|

> When set to set to `true`, returns the first occurrence of an element (even if the element appears more than once). Enabling this behavior degrades performance.

Author: ```suggestion
When set to `true`, returns the first occurrence of an element (even if the element appears more than once). Enabling this behavior degrades performance.
```

}
----

* Type: `Boolean`

> * Default: `
>   false for language levels: 2.3, 2.4
> 
>   false for language levels: 2.5`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Default: `false`
```

Available for language levels: 2.3, 2.4, 2.5

//com.mulesoft.dw.workingdirectory.base//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.workingdirectory.base`|

> Specifies the base directory in which temporary files will be written

Author: ```suggestion
Specifies the base directory in which temporary files are written.
```

* Type: `String`
* Default: `java.io.tmpdir (system property value)`

//com.mulesoft.dw.workingdirectory.delete_sync//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.workingdirectory.delete_sync`|
File deletion occurs synchronously when this property is set to `true`.

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

//com.mulesoft.dw.workingdirectory.max_output_buffer_size//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.workingdirectory.max_output_buffer_size`|

> Specifies the maximum size of a file to be written in bytes

Author: ```suggestion
Specifies the maximum size of a file written in bytes.
```

> * Type: `Long`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Type: `Number (in bytes)`
```

* Default: `-1`

//com.mulesoft.dw.workingdirectory.tracking//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.workingdirectory.tracking`|
Each script generates temporary files in their own directory when this property is set to `true`.

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

//com.mulesoft.dw.xml.supportDTD//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.xml.supportDTD`|
Controls whether DTD handling is enabled or disabled. When this property is set to `false`, DataWeave skips processing of both internal and external subsets.

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

//com.mulesoft.dw.xml_reader.honourMixedContentStructure//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.xml_reader.honourMixedContentStructure`|

> When this property is set to `true`, DataWeave retains a mixed-content structure instead of grouping text with mixed content into a single text field.

Author: ```suggestion
When set to `true`, DataWeave retains a mixed-content structure instead of grouping text with mixed content into a single text field.
```

* Type: `Boolean`

> * Default: `
>   false for language levels: 2.4
> 
>   true for language levels: 2.5`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Default:
  ** `false` for language levels: 2.4

  ** `true` for language levels: 2.5
```

Available for language levels: 2.4, 2.5

//com.mulesoft.dw.xml_writer.declareXmlNamespace//
|`com.mulesoft.dw.xml_writer.declareXmlNamespace`|

> When this property is set to `false`, DataWeave does not declare the `xml` implicit namespace.

Author: ```suggestion
When set to `false`, DataWeave doesn’t declare the `xml` implicit namespace.
```

* Type: `Boolean`

> * Default: `
>   true for language levels: 2.4, 2.5
> 
>   false for language levels: 2.6`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Default:
  ** `true` for language levels: 2.4, 2.5

  ** `false` for language levels: 2.6
```

Available for language levels: 2.4, 2.5, 2.6

//mule.dw.java_module_loader_deterministic_functions_ordering//
|`mule.dw.java_module_loader_deterministic_functions_ordering`|

> When set to true the JavaModuleLoader loads the methods for Java Classes in deterministic order. DataWeave considers the method name, the parameters count, and finally, the parameter type name.

Author: ```suggestion
When set to `true`, the JavaModuleLoader loads the methods for Java Classes in deterministic order. DataWeave considers the method name, the parameters count, and finally, the parameter type name.
```

* Type: `Boolean`

> * Default: `
>   false for language levels: 
> 
>   true for language levels: 2.5, 2.6`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Default: `true`
```
